# CSS & JavaScript with Asset Mapper

Coming Soon...

What about images, CSS, JavaScript? How does that work in Symfony? Well, first thing to know is that the public directory is known as your document root. Anything inside your public directory is accessible to your end user. Anything not in the public directory is not accessible, which is great. It means all of our source files can't be downloaded by the end user. So if you want to have a CSS or an image file or anything else, the simplest thing to do is just to create an image in public and that's it. I can now go to slash foo.txt and we see the file. However, Symfony has a great component called asset mapper, which is going to help us effectively do that same thing, but with some extra wonderful features. Now we have two tutorials about asset. We've, we have multiple tutorials about, we have two tutorials that go deeper into this topic. One about asset mapper and another one about building things with asset mapper called last stack. If you want to go deeper into it, but let's get a quick preview. So commit everything I already have and then install asset mapper with composer required Symfony slash asset mapper. This recipe is going to make several changes, but we're actually going to walk through these little by little as they're important. The first thing to notice, if you go over and refresh is we suddenly have a blue background. And if you inspect element and go to the console, we have a console log. This log comes from asset slash app dot JS. Welcome to asset mapper. So the asset mapper has two big superpowers. The first one is that it helps us load CSS and JavaScript. One of the things that recipe gave us is a new assets directory with an app dot JS and an app dot CS and CSS inside of it. As you can see, the console log is coming from app dot JS. So this file is being loaded onto our site. It also imports app dot CSS, which is what's giving us that blue background.  So we're going to go into more detail later into how these files are So we're going to go into more detail later into how these files are being loaded and how that all works, but for right now, just know that these two files are being loaded onto our page. The second big superpower of asset mapper is actually a bit simpler. Another file, the recipe gave us was a config packages, asset mapper.yaml. There's not a lot in here, just paths. And then something called pointing to a directory called assets.  Because of this, any file that you put into the assets directory becomes magically available publicly. It's as if this assets directory lives inside of the public directory. So, as I mentioned, a pretty simple idea, however, we're going to get, however, it's going to give us one extra thing that putting files in the public directory can't give us, and that's asset versioning, which we'll see in a moment. Head of your terminal and run bin console. And we're going to use another debug command called debug asset. This is really cool. This is going to show us every asset that is exposed publicly through asset mapper. So right now it's just two app dot CSS and app dot JS.  Back over. If you download the course code, you'll find a tutorial, you'll have a tutorial directory with an images directory inside with some images we're going to use. I'm going to cut this and then paste this into my assets directory. So now I have an assets slash images directory with five images inside, and you can organize the assets directory however you want, but as soon as we add those five files, if you spin back over and run debug asset again, they're there. So this is telling us, Hey, we see these five image files and these five images are now available publicly. On the left here, you see something called the logical path. That's going to be the path that we use to reference that file. So let's put the logo on our site. So I'll copy this star shop logo dot PNG logical path. And then head over into templates and base dot HTML twig. And down here, right above the body, let's add an image tag for the source.  Instead of trying to hard code something right there, say curly, curly, and use a special tweak function called asset and pass that our logical name. That's it over here. I'll add, I'll be responsible and add a alt attribute. All right. Try that out, refresh and error. Did you forget to run composer requires symphony slash asset. So remember our application starts really small. And then as we need more features from symphony, we install more symphony components. Sometimes you'll actually use a feature from a component you don't have installed yet. In this case, that asset function comes from another component called symphony slash asset. The great thing is symphony tells us, it says, Hey, yo, just run this command and you'll be good to go. So I'll copy that composer require command, spin up on my terminal, run that. And now it works. There's our logo. And the most important thing, if you view the source is check out that URL slash assets, slash images, slash star shop logo dash, and then a big long version hash dot PNG, this version hash is created based on the content of the file. And what that means is if we decided later to change our logo, this hash would automatically update. That's important because browsers like to cache images, JavaScript, and CSS, which is great, but because the file name will change when we update the image. After we deploy everyone's browser will download the new file instead of trying to use the old cached one. So this is a small detail, but incredibly important on the web to give you a good experience. And you just don't even need to worry about it's just going to be a little bit experience and you just don't even need to worry about it's just going to work for you. All right. Next. What about CSS? Let's talk about that. And tailwind CSS.
