# Getting to Know our Tiny Project

Coming Soon...

Head back to your terminal. This first tab is running our web server. If you need to stop it, you can run Ctrl-C and then you can restart it by running Symfony serve. So we're just going to leave this here and let it do its thing. I'm now going to open a second tab into the same directory. When we ran the Symfony new command, it downloaded a tiny project for us and initialized a Git repository with an initial commit. That was super nice. To see the files we have, I'm going to pop open this directory in my favorite editor, phpStorm. And the first thing I want you to notice is just how small this thing is. There's not a lot going on. To see the full list of files in Git, back your terminal, run Git ls-files. Yeah, that's it. Only about 15 total files committed to our repository. This is our app. This is our code. We're going to modify these. And my goal is to make you feel perfectly comfortable with what all of them do. So then if these are our files, where the heck is Symfony? One of the files that we started with is composer.json. Composer is the package manager for PHP. Its job is to read all the package names that you have under this require key, and then to download those for you. Now, when we ran Symfony new command, it downloaded these 15 files, and it actually ran composer install for us. That composer install command is what reads this file and downloads all of these into the vendor directory. So where is Symfony? It's in vendor slash Symfony. And right now we're using about 20 Symfony packages. There are about 150 in total. Now, this vendor directory is ignored from Git thanks to another file that we got for free, .gitignore. This means the vendor files aren't committed to your Git repository, which is great. It also means that if a teammate clones your project, they're not going to have a vendor directory. And that's okay. You can always repopulate the vendor directory by running composer install. So check this out. I am going to right click and delete this file, delete the entire vendor directory. And then I'm going to go to the directory that I'm going to install. Delete the entire vendor directory.  And if we try our app now, it's totally broken. Bad feels. But your terminal, you just run composer install. And that's it. It's back. The directory is back. And over here, our site works again. Now looking at our files, let's take a look at our files. There are really only two directories that we even need, that you even need to think about. The first is the config directory. This holds your configuration. And we're going to learn about what these files do little by little. The second directory is source. This is where all of your PHP code is going to go. That's really it. You're either creating configuration or you're writing PHP code. That's all you need to think about. The other four directories aren't really very important. The bin directory holds a console binary that we're going to learn about later. But we're never going to look at or modify that file. The public directory has an index.php. This is known as your front controller. And it's technically what your web server executes to get everything started. So it's super important in one sense. But again, you're never going to open this file or look at this file or think about this file. The var directory is also ignored from git. And this is where Symfony stores the log files and also cache files it needs internally. So very important, but also not something we know we care about. And we already talked about the vendor directory. Now before we get coding, as I mentioned, I'm using phpStorm, but you're free to use whatever editor you want. However, phpStorm is awesome. And one of the reasons it's awesome is because it has an incredible Symfony plugin available. If you go to phpStorm settings and search for Symfony, down here under plugins and then marketplace, you're going to find a Symfony plugin that you can download. And this is a great plugin to get started. marketplace, you're going to find a Symfony plugin that you can download and install into phpStorm if you don't already have it. After you install it, restart phpStorm. And then there's one more step. I want you to go back into settings, search for Symfony again. And you should now have a Symfony section right here.  You need to make sure that you enable this plugin on a project by project basis. So you can get its magic. All right, that's it. Let's start coding next and build our first page in Symfony.
