# Magical Flex Recipes

Coming Soon...

I have a little secret. When our project was created, it wasn't 15 files. It was actually a single file. If you looked inside the code for the Symfony new command, you would discover that it's a shortcut for just two things. First, it clones this repository called Symfony Skeleton, which is just two files. And then it runs Composer install. So if that's true, then where did all these other files come from in our project, like the bin directory, config directory, source directory? Well, the answer to that starts with a special package we have in our composer.json file called Symfony Flex. Symfony Flex is a Composer plugin, and it adds two superpowers to Composer. The first is called aliases and recipes. Now, aliases are a really simple idea. When you install a package with Composer, which we're going to do in a minute, you run Composer require and then the name of the package like HTTP client, which is one of the components in Symfony. Now, we're not going to use this. Many of the most important packages for Symfony have an alias internally. What that would allow us to do is say Composer require HTTP client, and then Symfony Flex would translate that to the final package name. So it's just a tiny shortcut when you install the packages. And it's basically that simple. If you want to see what all the aliases are that are available, go to a repository called Symfony slash recipes. And down here, click this recipes.md. And within this, you can see all the different aliases that we have. The second superpower that Symfony Flex gives to Composer is recipes. And these are more interesting. When you install a package, it may have a recipe, which is basically a set of files that will be added to your project. And it turns out that every file that we have in our project been all these things and config public. These came from one of the recipes of the packages that was originally installed. For example, symphony slash framework bundle is probably the most core part of the symphony framework, you can check out its recipe by going to this symphony recipes repository, then navigating navigating for it. symphony framework bundle, find the latest version, and boom, check it out config packages.  Most of the stuff that we started with in our project came from the recipe from framework bundle. Another way to see the recipes is to go to your command line and run compete composer recipes. So apparently for the packages we installed had recipes. And we can even get more information about a specific recipe by adding its name. Anyway, recipes are amazing, because we can install a package and get any files we need instantly. So we can just get to work without fussing with configuration. So let's install our first package. We're going to install something called PHP CS fixer. This is a this is a this library gives us a command line tool that will fix our code if we violate any coding standards. So for example, in source controller main controller, if you follow this standard, you follow the coding standards of PHP, your the curly brace is always on the next line after a function. So if we did something like this, our files now violating coding standards, that wouldn't hurt anything. But you know, we want to keep our code nice and standard. So we can install PHP CS fixer, and it'll find and fix these things for us. So normally, when you install it, run composer require CS fixer shim. The first thing to notice on top is that this is an alias, it actually required PHP CS fixer slash shim. The second thing to notice is its recipe, which you can see by running git status. Now composer JSON and composer that lock, those are always going to be changed after you require a new package into your project. And you can see that composer that JSON has the new library right here. Every other modified file is thanks to the recipe system. So let's look at these dot get in, open up dot get ignore. Cool. At the bottom and added two new dot get ignore entries for two common files that you want to ignore when you use PHP CS fixer. This also added a new PHP CS fixer.dist.php. This is PHP secret. See, this is PHP CS fixers configuration file. And check it out. It's just pre built to work for symphony. It tells it to fix all files in the current directory, but ignore the var directory because that's where symphony stores its cache files.  So that's not something we need to worry about. It also tells it to use a rule set called symphony. So that basically means that by default, we want our code to look like symphonies core code. The last modified file is symphony dot lock. And this just keeps track of which recipes we have installed and at what version. And yes, you are going to commit all of these files to your repository. Alright, since we installed this package, let's use it. To do that run vendor bin PHP CS fixer. That'll show you all of the available commands in this and the one we want is called fix. So run PHP CS fixer fix and check it out. It find that found the violation and main control dot PHP. So when I scroll over, yes, it moved my curly brace from the end of the line back down here. That's awesome. Next up, let's meet and install one of my favorite libraries in PHP, the twig templating engine.
