# Non-Auto-Variable Arguments

So, we already know that you can fetch parameters from the container with `getParameter` shortcut in the controllers. And we also already know that we can easily create our own services. But along with services we also can create our own parameters and refer to them later in the code. How? Open `config.services.yaml` file and here you can see an empty Parameters section. Let's create a new parameter, how about `issLocationCacheTtl`. And let's set it to 5. We are going to use this parameter in the configuration to avoid hard-coding. But first, return to the main controller and instead of dumping our `kernel.projectdir` let's dump our new parameter which is `issLocationCacheTtl`. Back to the browser and refresh. Here it is, our dumped number 5. So, we already know we can easily get it with `getParameter` in the controllers. But how could we get this parameter if we were not in a controller? For example, how we can inject parameters in services where there is no fancy `getParameter` method name. Will it just work? Let's try first at least. I will add a new argument to the home page `$issLocationCacheTtl` and dump it instead of this `getParameter` below. Open your browser and refresh. And we got an error. Symfony cannot auto-wire that argument. It can auto-wire services, but this is not a service, this is a scalar parameter. But can we make non-auto-wireable arguments in Injection work? Yes, we can. And the answer is to auto-wire it, just like any other service. This will work in the constructor of any service or in a controller method like normal auto-wiring. Back to the phpStorm. Let's add the auto-wire attribute above the argument. And we need to write `$param, colon, and the param name in $issLocationCacheTl`. In single quotes `$issLocationCacheTtl`. Now I'm going to drop this argument and auto-wire attribute example from here. Next, let's see how we can use this parameter in the configuration. Open `config, packages, cache.yaml` file. And instead of hard-coded value, pass in quotes `%issLocationCacheTtl%` Refresh to see that everything still works. But before we end this chapter, I would like to mention you one more way to auto-wire parameters. So-called parameters binding. Open your `services.yaml` file. And below `services-defaults` key, let's add a new section, `bind`. And below that, add our variable name, which is `$issLocationCacheTtl`.
 And set it to single quotes `%issLocationCacheTtl`. As soon as we match the argument with the name we wrote in `bind`, Symfony will auto-wire it to this parameter automatically. We can also add a type hint in case we want to auto-wire `$issLocationCacheTtl`. That is type hinted to `int`. Just don't forget to add the type hint for the argument too. You can see it still works. So it may be a useful thing to auto-wire something this way, because it's auto-wired globally. And so you can avoid duplicating auto-wire PHP attribute in several places. But since we are not using that parameter anywhere, except the config so far, I will reverse these changes for simplicity. Next, let's see how we can auto-wire non-auto-wireable services, and I promise it will be as easy as auto-wire parameters.
