# Debugging with the Amazing Profiler

Coming Soon...

Symfony has some of the best debugging tools on all of the internet. However, because our application started so small, we don't even have those tools installed yet. So let's do that. First, at your command line, make sure that you've committed everything I already have, just because it's going to make it easier for us to see what the recipe for the package does to our code. Then run composer require debug. So yes, that is a flex alias. And yes, it even installs a pack. So this is actually going to install about five individual packages that add all kinds of good debugging tools to our code. For example, spin over and pop open composer.json. And the pack added one new line to our require key for monologue bundle. monologue is a logging library. Then all the way at the bottom, it added three packages to a required dev section. These are known as dev dependencies, and they won't be installed on production. And all three of these are going to power something called the profiler, which we're about to see in a second. But before we do, head back over and run get status, so we can see what the recipe did. So it updated the normal files, and it enabled a couple and enabled three new bundles. And then gave us three new configuration files for those bundles. Alright, so what is the true end result of installing of running composer required debug? of running composer required debug? Well, first, we now have a logging library. So you're going to start seeing logs go into the var slash log directory. But the really big thing is super obvious when you refresh the page. Boom, we have a beautiful black bar on the bottom called the web debug toolbar. This is packed with information. For example, over here, we can see the route and controller for this page. So it makes it very easy to go to a page on your site that maybe you didn't even build and see what the code is behind that page. We can also see how long this page took the load, how much memory it used, and even the twig template that was rendered and how long the twig template took.  But the real magic of the web debug toolbar is what happens when you click any of these links, you hop into what's called the profiler. This is packed full of even more information about that request. So information about the request and the response. We can see the logs from that specific page, routing information, and even information about what twig templates are rendered. So in reality, twig rendered six templates, our main one, the one and extended. And then in order to render the web debug toolbar, it actually rendered four more templates on its own. We can see the order in which these were called in even how long out of the total amount that each of these took. And then there's probably my favorite section, performance. This breaks down our entire page load time into different pieces. And I love this. And as you learn more about symphony, you'll get more familiar with what these different pieces are. So this is both useful for knowing what part of your code might be slowing your page down, but it's also a fantastic way to dive into symphony and start understanding all of the different pieces and what's going on. So we're going to continue to referencing this profiler throughout this series to help us do stuff. Now to get back to the homepage, you can either hit back a few times or click this link right there. There's another debugging tool that's actually been installed in our app this entire time, and it's at the command line. Run PHP bin slash console, or on most machines, you can just run dot slash bin console. This is symphony is console, and it's packed with a bunch of commands inside of it to do all kinds of cool stuff. And you can even add your own custom commands to this. We're going to learn about these commands little by little as they're useful. But I already want to point out that there's a whole bunch of debug commands that help give us information. For example, there's one called debug router. So bin console debug router, which shows us every route in our application, we can see our homepage route on the bottom.  And then there's actually a bunch of routes being added by symphony in the dev environment that power the web debug toolbar and profiler that we just saw. Another one is debug twig. This tells us every function, every filter, everything that exists in twig inside of our application. It's awesome. Alright, next, let's create our first API endpoint and learn about symphony's serializer.
