# Setup

Hello friends and welcome back to the episode 2 of our Symfony 7 tutorials. No matter what you will do with Symfony, it comes down to services, and this episode is all about services. Little yellow minions, I mean things that do the work in your app. We will talk about configuration for those services and about the environments, which is a way to tweak those services to act differently locally while developing versus on production. So what is a service on practice? That's just a plain PHP class that do some work. For example, a `Logger` that helps you to log messages is a service. A mailer that sends emails to your customers is also a service. Or a database connection object that you use to execute queries to the database is also a service. Even our controller that handles requests is also a service, but with some superpower. We will talk about it later. We call this course `Fundamentals`, because truly after this tutorial everything else is just a variation of these themes. So to code along with me, please download the course code, unzip it, and find a `start/` directory with the same code you see here. Also check out the readme.md file inside the project for setup instructions. I already set everything up locally, so I move to the last step to run the built-in Symfony web server. To do this, open your terminal and run the next command. `symfony serve -d`. I added `-d` at the end to start it in the background. It runs the website at `https://localhost:8000` so you can type it in your browser, but I will cheat and click on the URL holding `Command` on my Mac to make the link active. And welcome to our Starshop website we created in the previous episode. So services are objects that do work. For example, `Logger`, mailer, database connection, even our controllers. But not everything in our app is a service. We also may have objects that hold data. For example, like our `Starship` class. This is not a service, this is just a plain data object. But who is responsible for instantiating each service? The answer is service container. It knows everything about our services, its class name and every constructor argument. You can ask it for a service and it will instantiate it for you and return a ready-to-use PHP object. But if you ask for a service multiple times, it only creates it once, so you will work with the same instance. So now you may ask, how do you know which services you have? To see the list of all available services, you may leverage a special command. Open your terminal and run `bin console debug:container`. Here is the long list of services you can use in your app. But where do these come from? Who tells the container there should be a `logger` service and its class is `Logger` and it should be instantiated with these arguments? Some services are from our code and we will talk about how those are registered in a bit. But the vast majority comes from `bundles`. `Bundles` are just plugins for `Symfony` application that you can add to your project. They can give you multiple things, but mainly they give us services. Each `bundle` has a config file that literally says, I want to have a service called `Logger` and it should be an instance of `Logger` and it should be instantiated with these arguments. So services are tools and `bundles` give us tools. Switch back to PhpStorm and open `config/bundles.php` file. This is the file that's responsible for registering bundles in the `Symfony` application. You can see there are a list of 10 bundles that are already registered in your application. But some of them are available only for a specific environment. We will talk about environments later in this course too. For example, this MonologueBundle is the one that provides you a `Logger` service that we use in `StarshipRepository` service when we log a message. Or for example, if you delete this `TwigBundle` line completely, the `render()` method call in our controllers will not work anymore, because behind the scene this uses `twig` service to render templates. So I'll revert it back. And next we will talk about how to install new bundles in your Symfony application so that it brings you new services.
