# Template Inheritance

Coming Soon...

What about a base layout, like a header and a footer? If you view the HTML on our page right now, it's just the HTML from our template. So there's nothing special in Twig where a base layout is automatically rendered for us. Whatever you have in your template is what you get on the page. However, the Twig recipe did start us with a base layout called base.html.twig. Now, it's simple now, but this is the layout that we want to use. So how can we? In Twig, we use something called template inheritance. In homepage.html.twig, at the top, type curly brace percent extends, and then the name of the template, base.html.twig. And notice, this is the do something tag. We're not printing this template. We're just telling Twig that we want to extend it. And we're going to see what that does right now. If we stopped, if we did nothing else and refreshed, we get an error. A template that extends another one cannot include content outside Twig blocks. Hmm. When you extend another template, it tells Twig that you want to render your template inside this base template. But Twig has no idea where our template content should go. Should it take our homepage template and put it down here or up here or right there? It doesn't know. So it throws that error. The way we tell it is via these blocks. Blocks are holes into which a child template can put content. And if you look at this block called body, this is exactly where we want our content to go. To put it there, surround all of our content with a block body, and then at the bottom, end block. And now it works. And even though it doesn't look much different, we are inside of a base layout. This is called template inheritance because it works exactly like PHP class inheritance. Imagine you have a homepage class that extends a base class. That base class has a body method, and we override that body method in our homepage class. Now, these block names like JavaScript style sheets and body, they aren't special names, and they're not registered anywhere. You're free to create new blocks however and whenever you want.  For example, suppose we want to change the title control, change the title of our page from our child template. In that case, the recipe actually already gave us a block called a title to do that. And notice that this block has default content, which is why we already see welcome on the screen right now. Let's override this in our child template. So anywhere outside of our block body, say block title, I'll add a title and then end block. And now, got it, new title. And notice that when we override the block, we override it completely. We don't see the word welcome there anymore. If you did, if you did override the block, you would see that the title is now a new title. So if you did override the block, you would see that the title is now a new title. If you did, if you instead wanted to append to the, to the default content, you could do that by saying curly curly parent. And this is really neat. The parent function is just going to grab the content from the title block of the parent template. And then we're using curly curly to print it. This time we can see welcome and then our title. Since we don't actually want that, I'll remove it. So cool. We're returning HTML. We have a base layout. And yeah, our site is still ugly, but we're going to fix that soon. Next up, let's run one command and instantly gain access to some of the coolest debugging tools on the web.
